###### tags: `meeting notes`

# ICU Meeting notes

- Computers:
    - unused Dell under Matthias' desk (Federico?)
    - Anna computer
    - Johannes computer
    - Stephan computer
    - Rainer/Kristin old computer

- what happened to Antonios AWS data processing scripts; (a) where are they? (b) can we revive these and use them to seed a code-share strategy?
- lead the way as a group posting paper summaries and key figure on ACINN news

**Potential talks external:**
- Tom Marke Snow MIP (Feb2021)
- Klemens Weisleitner algae and sparkling science
- Wolfi Gurgiser tells us about outreach & sustainability wahlmodule?
- Anna Wirbel on her new project?

**Potential talks internal:**
- Zora
- Elisabeth
- Patrick
- watch Georg Kaser climate film and discuss it

### 17.12.2020

- Updates from the group and Christmas plans:
    - Fabien's H2020 consortium's project PROVIDE was financed. 6M total, 230kE for ACINN, start mid-2021! PROVIDE: Paris Agreement Overshooting â€“ Reversibility, Climate Impacts and Adaptation Needs
    - XMas: Some of us went home (for example Nikolina, Lily, Brigitta ...) and because of quarantine(s) will also stay for a while. Others are staying here!
    - I hope that you will all have a nice and relaxing holiday - we can stay in touch via Slack during the holiday time!
- Report Bachelor discussion:
    - We asked Georg Mayr to change the Master Curriculum name to 
- Talk Patrick

### 10.12.2020

- Report institute's meeting (Fabien)
- **Start the Bachelor discussion**


### 03.12.2020

- A short reminder about sending your contributions for the FLD
- Welcome Emily, also in our ICU group!
- Discussion on co-authorship - it seems that we all more or less agree!
- Updates round:
    - Fabi: working on CMIP6 simulations with OGGM for the IPCC
    - Lilian: corrections on the [WCD paper](https://wcd.copernicus.org/preprints/wcd-2020-42/) and some work on OGGM's new mass-balance models.
    - Anouk sent thesis for feedback: feedback came back, not too much work left! Netherlands Polar Symposium (online, Annelies participated as well). 
    - Annelies: received and applied a script to correct for inclination in laser scanner data, still not working perfectly 
    - Brigitta: showed a video from SHF over glacier from LES simulations. Looking nice!
    - Rainer: annual report to funding agency of HEF + submitted data WGMS + new weather station at HEF + update Rofental paper (coordinated by Michi Warscher). Follows a discussion about Rofental and Christoph Klug
    - Lindsey: Proposal with Polish colleagues + ACRP proposal on destabilizing slopes (lead: Jan Beutel). Girls on Ice! Planning a trip next summer (thanks to Annelies/Brigitta for help, still looking for volunteers)
    - Nikolina: no big science but smaller things, e.g. gathering signatures for paper, teaching, Annual CORDEX FPS convection permitting in the Alps
    - Conni: many small things, NERC discovery grant proposal about LS effects on organized convection, co-author paper on convection initiation on the Tibetan Plateau got accepted, Peru meeting (with Emily Potter who presented her data), big UK NERC Proposal on Andean Wetlands, and project participations about how hurricanes affect invasive species.
    - Li Fei: OGGM calibration with geodetic estimates: mixed results. Now trying with new climate data.
    - Elisabeth: progress with Tiago's paper, hopefully submitted by the end of the year.
- Next week: LitSem discussion Rainer + either Tom Marke, outreach Georg, or Fabi's update.

### xx.11.2020


### 19.11.2020

HPC questionaire: https://umfrage.uibk.ac.at/limesurvey/allgemein/index.php/418445?lang=en
- please have a look and give your feedbac to Nikolina asap
- deadline is Nov 29, but Nina would like to ask discuss our feedback with Alex Gohm
- even if you are not a present user you can add yourpotential future needs too

Update round - SO. MANY. THINGS!
* Rainer: mass balance report, and ESSD data updates
* Annelies: Proposal for Svalbard study using TLS = good opportunity to develop deeper understanding of uncertainty and performance, connecting with group in Netherlands povided code needed for a big step forwards
* Anouk: Trying to speed up runs at the moment, and also at a stage to soon send off thesis for comments
* Conni: go ahead for NERC discovery grant, so 3 weeks to send off the content, on organised convection
* Brigitta: analysis of HEF boundary conditions, application for computing resources
* Lily: comments on Greenland paper - will present this afternoon in lit seminar
* LiFei: analysis of ice thickness ongoing
* Elisabeth: paper needs more rewriting that initially hoped, COVID stresses not helping, but meetings planned, was at IGS Nordic last week
* Lindsey: mainly preparing teaching content, will support Geography helipod infrastructure application, data paper from IACS WG, nice discussion with Lily/Fabi on Ferguson/Vieli paper on debris covered glaciers in TCD
* Georg: FWF board meetings, some invited calimte talks mainly closed door, but one was prefilmed and could make a good thing to watch and discuss together
* Nikolina: also busy with teaching but 3 papers in advanced stage: Nature review paper; clim Dyn paper on evaluating precip in km-scale simulations; paper stemming from ETH MSc thesis
* Calvin: MSc analysis shows increasing timestep of calculation decreases heat diffusivity - physical or not?

IPCC WG2 2nd order draft last week, so will soon be open for review, including special report on mountains

Poll on discussing a paper next week, and Zekollari won the vote: https://tc.copernicus.org/articles/13/1125/2019/ (7/11 votes), 3 people wanted to discuss this paper (https://tc.copernicus.org/preprints/tc-2020-289/), and one joker wanted me to have to find a different one :-)
Lily kindsly agree to 'lead' the discussion next week, but please all prepare by having a look at the paper before next weeks meeting!


### PAST MEETINGS ON OLAT!
